hello everybody and welcome back to
another episode of Minecraft
myth-busting this episode we are going
to look into something which isn't
really a myth but was suggested in the
comments on the last video and I think
it is a very useful thing to know and
that is what blocks can we place above a
beacon without the beam breaking that is
fairly well known that you can place
glass above a beacon but there are other
blocks as well for example a stone fence
or like we discovered on hermit craft
you can put the daylight sensors on top
of the beacons as well but what we want
to find out is all of the blocks that
don't break the beacon beam and the only
way to do that is to test them all one
by one
we have now tested all of the blocks in
the game and that did not take as long
as I expected however my idea to put the
blocks onto these two platforms have
left our results a little bit clustered
so I decided to reorganize them so we
could have a look at what blocks the
beam can shine through so as you would
expect glass is one of them and all the
different types of stained glass
including the panes and also carpets the
beam can shine through it can also go
through another beacon block so you can
just place one on top like that and it
will go through as the item frames the
signs and the mob heads now this one is
a little bit earlier the beam can shine
through lava but it can't shine through
water and I've got a feeling that's
because water adjust light levels but
there's a an interesting result right
there the beam can shine through fences
it can shine through the Kaba walls
without Pistons trapdoor the two
different torches cauldron fence gate
and Brewing stand it can go for all of
those and the bed you can't place on top
of a beacon but if you put down some
other blocks then break them the beam
will happily shine through the bed as
well then over on this side we got the
vines ladders the tripwire hook the two
different buttons all types of chests
the iron bars hopper the daylight sensor
the end portal frame which is an
interesting one and the enchanting table
and anvil it can shine through all of
these now there are a few blocks that I
was expecting it to shine free which it
didn't that is ice and glowstone should
break that before it turns into water
cobwebs and leaves I just wanted to
clarify that the beam wouldn't go
through any of those block types so sigh
guy Ryan has looked into the game code
and he's found out that what a beacon
does is it checks all of the blocks
above the beam to see if any of them are
opaque and if they are it cancels the
beam so that means that all of these
block types right here are classified as
opaque and all of these ones are not
which is interesting because it's the
same mechanic that a zombie uses when
it's burning in daylight so it will
check above itself to see if there are
any opaque blocks and if that is so it
will not be set on fire which means if a
zombie is underneath any of these blocks
for example lava or a chest it can
actually burn in daylight
so we've learned all we set out to learn
this episode and now I want to share
with you a suggestion that I saw in the
comments on one of my videos that I
thought was fantastic and this was the
perfect opportunity to share it with you
if we put a stained colored glass on top
of a beacon then it could change the
beacon beam color now that is a
fantastic suggestion and site that I
think that very well into minecraft it
means we could use different stained
glass blocks to create different beacon
beams it's aesthetically pleasing it
allows people to do more things and what
I'm going to do is post this over at
minecraft suggestions which is a reddit
so look in the description box down
below for a link to that reddit and if
you liked the idea come over and give it
an upvote and who knows maybe the people
at mo yang will see and they could
possibly implement this which i think
would be a really nice feature to have
so in the last episode of myth-busting I
asked you all to take a vote and 65
percent of you got the answer correct
yes hydration does affect crop growth
but that is it for this episode of
minecraft myth-busting if you've enjoyed
it remember to leave a like it is always
appreciated so as always thank you very
much for watching and I'll catch you
next time